# Introduction

## Migration As a Contentious Issue

In the developed world there are few socioeconomic issues as contentious, engaging a significant fraction of the populace over an extended period of time, as migration. There are different types of migrants. Migrants may enter a country to be re-united with their families, to take up employment legally, to seek a better life and work with an illegal status, to seek refuge from famine, war, religious and political persecution. Invariably one type of migrants or the other, become the focus of national and international politics in the developed countries which are the major destinations of migrants. Refugees from Syria and North Africa and their interflow between countries have caused conflicts and fracture within the European Union, and a major factor in Brexit. In the United States, illegal migrants from the south crossing the Mexican border are targets of contentious and partisan politics. In Canada and Australia, opposition to migration never fails to provide fodder for election politics.

National politics aside, migration spawns a myriad of contentious economic, social, ethnic and cultural issues which need to be analyzed and studied to inform the public and the migration policy-makers. Over the decades, there has been a voluminous literature on the study and debate in many countries addressing the following issues. What are migrants’ contribution to the economic development of the host country? Are migrants integrating in the host country? Should government take more initiatives to integrate migrants into the local community? Are migrants occupationally segregated? Do migrants displace the native-born from high-skill jobs or do they take up low-paid jobs unwanted by the native-born? Are professional migrants a significant supplement to the human capital of the host country? Are migrants handicapped in the language of the host country in job search and career advancement? Do migrants take up a disproportionate share of social welfare? Are female migrants participating in the labour market or do they stay home as homemakers? Do migrants benefit from government-subsidized low cost housing at the expense of the native-born? Are migrants residing in enclave communities or trapped in urban ghettos? Do migrants suffer from racial discrimination in the labour market and the housing market? Are migrants upwardly mobile? Do second generation migrants fare better than their parents? Do they fare as well as the native born? Do they have equal educational opportunity? Does migration enrich ethnic and religious diversity or enhance conflict? 


